# Project Setup Instructions

1. **Ensure Node.js is installed**: Make sure Node.js is installed on your system.

2. **Install project dependencies**:
   ```sh
   npm install
   ```
    - This installs dependencies for the project in the root folder.

3. **Navigate to the backend folder**:
   ```sh
   cd mybank-backend
   ```
    - Move to the backend folder.

4. **Install backend dependencies**:
   ```sh
   npm install
   ```
    - This installs dependencies for the backend.

5. **Set up environment variables**:
    - Make a new Firebase project, and a new MongoDB project. Make two **.env** files, one in the root folder and one in the backend folder, i.e, **mybank-backend**. 
    - Ensure that the **mybank-react-firebase-adminsdk-3ctvu-0629e6443c.json** file is present in the **config** folder inside the backend folder. This file is generated by setting up the firebase-admin for Node.js. 
    - In the .env file of backend folder, add a variable named **DB_URL** and add your MongoDB connection URL.
    - In the .env file of the root folder, add the firebase credentials for connecting to Web Client by appending **REACT_APP_** to each variable. For example, REACT_APP_API_KEY="shdgf93827fh9328".

6. **Start the backend server while still in the `mybank-backend` folder**:
   ```sh
   node app.js
   ```
    - This command starts the backend server.

7. **Return to the project root folder**:
   ```sh
   cd ..
   ```
    - Go back to the root folder.

8. **Start the frontend development server**:
   ```sh
   npm start
   ```
    - This command starts the frontend development server.

9. **Access the web application**:
    - Open your web browser and navigate to [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) to access the web application.
